then the children of Israel moved and
camped in the plains of Moab on the side
of the Jordan the cross from Jericho now
balak the son of zippor saw all that
Israel had done to the ammonites and
Moab was exceedingly afraid of the
people because they were many and Moab
was sick with dread because of the
children of Israel
so Moab said to the elders of Midian now
this company will lick up everything
around us as an ox licks up the grass of
the field and balak the son of zippor
was king of the Moabites at that time
then he sent messengers to Balaam the
son of Beor at people which is near the
river in the land of the sons of his
people to call him saying look a people
has come from Egypt see they cover the
face of the earth and are settling next
to me therefore please come at once
curse this people for me for they are
too mighty for me perhaps I shall be
able to defeat them and drive them out
of the land for I know that he whom you
bless is blessed and he whom you curse
is cursed
so the elders of MOA and the elders of
midian departed with the diviners fee in
their hand
and they came to Balaam and spoke to him
the words of Balaam and he said to them
large here tonight and I will bring back
word to you as the Lord speaks to me
so the princes of Moab stayed with
Balaam then God came to Balaam and said
who are these men with you
balak the son of zippor king of Moab has
sent to me saying look a people has come
out of Egypt and they cover the face of
the earth come now curse them for me
perhaps I shall be able to overpower
them and drive them out you shall not go
with them you shall not curse the people
for they are blessed so Balaam rose in
the morning and said to the princes of
Balak go back to your land for the Lord
has refused to give me permission to go
with you and the princes of Moab rose
and went to Balak and said Balaam
refuses to come with us then Balak again
sent princes more numerous and more
honorable than they and they came to
Balaam and said to him thus says balak
the son of zippor please let nothing
hinder you from coming to me for I will
certainly honour you greatly and I will
do whatever you say to me
therefore please come curse these people
for me fan Balaam answered and said to
the servants of Balak though Balak were
to give me his house full of silver
I could not go beyond the word of the
Lord my god to do less or more
now therefore please you also stay here
tonight
that I may know what more the Lord will
say to me and God came to bail him at
night and said to him if the men come to
call you rise and go with them but only
the word which I speak to you that you
shall do so Balaam rose in the morning
saddled his donkey and went with the
princes of mower then the God's anger
was aroused because he wept and the
angel of the Lord took his stand in the
way as an adversary against him and he
was riding on his donkey and his two
servants were willing now the donkey saw
the angel of the Lord standing in the
way with his drawn sword in his hand
the donkey turned aside out of the way
and went into the feet
surveillance truck donkey to turn a book
onto the road then the angel of the Lord
stood in a narrow path between the
vineyards with a wall on this side and a
wall on that side when the donkey saw
the angel Overlord she pushed himself
against the hill and crushed Balaam
stood against the wall he struck her
again then the angel of the Lord went
further and stood in a narrow place
where there was no way to turn either to
the right hand or to the left when the
donkey saw the angel of the Lord she lay
down under de Manasseh Balaam's anger
was aroused and he struck the donkey
with his staff then the Lord opened the
mouth of the donkey and she said to
Balaam that you have struck me these
three times and Balaam said to the
donkey because you have abused me I wish
there were a sword in my hand for now I
would kill you
am I not your donkey and which you have
written ever since I became yours to
this day was I ever disposed to do this
to you no and the Lord opened baylin's
eyes and he saw the angel of the Lord
standing in the way with his drawn sword
in his hand
and he bowed his head and fell flat on
his face and the angel of the Lord said
to him why have you struck your donkey
these three times behold I have come out
to stand against you because your way is
perverse before me the donkey saw me and
turned aside for me these three times
she had not turn aside for me surely I
would also have killed you by now and
let her live I have sinned
for I did not know you stood in the way
against me now therefore if it
displeases you I will turn back go with
the men but only the word that I speak
to you that you shall speak so Balaam
went with the princes of Balaam now when
they lack heard that Balaam was coming
he went out to meet him at the city of
Moab which is on the border at the Arnon
the boundary of the territory then Balak
said to Balaam did I not earnestly send
to you calling for you why did you not
come to me am I not able to honor you
look I have come to you
now have I any power at all to say
anything the word that God puts in my
mouth that I must speak so Balaam went
with Balak and they came to kill Jeff
Huson then Balak offered oxen and sheep
he sent some to Balaam and to the
princes who were with him so it was the
next day that Balak took Balaam and
brought him up to the high places of
Bale that from there he might observe
the extent of the people
[Music]